hey guys I think it's mentioned really
briefly in some of my recent podcasts
but you know I have no idea what I'm
doing with my own future in terms of
education and career and I mean I might
as well just say that to people on
patreon because some of you might know
more about this that I do at the moment
I'm not getting any useful replies by
email from my own University Professors
back in Canada some of whom have been
very supportive toward me so we've been
appreciative towards me some of whom
regard me as quite brilliant whether or
not they can provide me with useful
guidance or advice sadly is another
matter my point being they may want to
provide me with guidance but may be
unable to do so um I was just reflecting
on this action because vegan gains has
this new video titled why I dropped out
of school and I was just asking myself
because it's such a common thing to say
it's so common to say to people oh you
should get a university degree oh you
should go back to school you should go
back to university and I have never said
that to Richard I was just pause and ask
why now you know of course partly my
could say something snarky lokotes
because I'm not an idiot like only an
idiot would just say Richard ed should
go back to university or something you
know but I mean I'm Canadian Richard is
Canadian I have had an incredibly
negative experience with Canadian
education system at every level but
especially at the university level
although high school was bad in Canada
university was actually much worse
really really really that was a step
down shockingly so deeply demoralizing
how much worse university was in high
school so in a generalized level I'm not
someone who would easily or casually say
oh you should go to university in canada
and look some of you guys will not
realize how deep or significant this is
but you know i made the decision that my
own daughter will never go to school in
Canada that my daughter will not become
a canadian citizen there's not a
decision to take lightly and that is in
large part means for many reasons but it
is in large part because the university
system and candidates so terrible the
education system is a hole in canada
i believe is really so poor that i would
prefer for my daughter to go to school
basically anywhere else quite likely she
will go to university in Europe I'll go
to go to school at all levels in Europe
as a result of that decision I made are
obviously Europe contains some of the
best and some of the worst education at
the world but that for me from my
perspective least there's hope in Europe
and in Canada there is none so look
that's general background but I mean
that the specific thing is I would never
say to Richard oh you should go to
university in the same sense that I
would never say to Richard oh you should
open your own business sometimes you're
talking about something in it's so vague
it becomes meaningless even if it has a
good intention behind it the advice is
[ __ ] because what business I mean me
maybe Richard should open a business a
particular business but you got it has
to be something specific right um you
know you can't say if it's a good or bad
idea to open a business any business
whatsoever in the same way to say to
somebody like me or Richard or what have
you oh you should go back to university
you'd do well well what what university
and what university program and what
credential and what career and I do not
know of any specific University in
Canada that is good i do not know of any
specific university program that is good
i do not know of any specific unity
university program that would be good
for Richard and I've gotta say also this
does not mean that they're all bad you
know I never studied architecture it's
possible somewhere in Canada there's a
wonderful architecture program it's
possible even something like cuisine you
know cooking becoming a chef I did look
into that at one point because I thought
about opening my own vegan restaurant
getting a formal University credential
and cuisine it's possible we have one or
two good programs of that kind of Canada
but as far as i know i don't know
anything positive in the whole country
so that's that general background right
now my view from my own future is that
i'm going to go back to university and
get an end
ta a masters of Public Administration an
incredibly boring university degree a
degree I don't want a degree i'm not
going to enjoy learning i'm not going to
enjoy the process of earning the degree
nakada i may learn nothing I don't know
I whether or not to learn a lot or learn
a little I don't know at this stage and
I remember I mean I have this memory
stuck in my mind I scoffed at the idea
of getting an MPA when there was a the
woman with a very low level job at my
university she was in an advisor's
office and she said look with with real
delight with a real sincere smile on her
face she looked at my resume she looked
at my CV and she said to me oh you could
get an MPA you get a masters in public
administration and then you could get a
job like me itself yeah I could get the
same job afraid the word she said I
could get exactly the same job she has
being a low-level bureaucrat in
university I have never wanted to get an
MPA I've been wanting doesn't even come
into it I mean you know at this point
god it's so bleak it's so depressing
talking about education career options
in Canada given that I'm a prisoner of
my passport etc etc it's really really
bleak but I put it to you guys now
because when I asked my professors about
this maybe i'll post as text in patreon
below this video I'll give an example of
me writing that my professors still now
it's like are these professors you say
I'm brilliant and talented and obviously
compared to other students getting a
bachelor's degree i'm at an incredibly
advanced level in terms of knowledge of
history and politics of asia and what
have you and to some extent languages i
mean have some advantages in study of
languages but also some disadvantages
God knows because I've studied too many
different languages but I don't know I
have never had anyone say to me and I've
asked again and again for this advice
I've never had anyone say to me this is
a good MA program anywhere in Canada for
any topic connected to my expertise ever
I've never heard anyone say this is a
good MP a public administrations
ever all right and I've been seeking
that kind of guidance for such a long
time uh why now does mpa as an option
become a lot less laughable less
ridiculous basically for two reasons one
is MPA can link to paid employment that
is relevant to my humanitarian interests
you know for example my political
interest in the future of First Nations
people's the Korean Ojibwe there are a
lot of jobs for bureaucrats basically or
people in the nonprofit sector trying to
improve the situation for the crea
jibley and many other first nations
people that kind of credential could
probably connect to employment that
makes the world a little bit of a better
place somewhere in Canada that kind I
guess too I mean I don't know it seems
very hard for me to believe I'll ever
become a police officer in Canada but my
ability in Chinese I'm working so hard
to learn Chinese but there's nothing I
can do with Chinese as a language in
terms of my career or education which is
extremely depressing I should be able to
come back from Canada speaking Chinese
reading and writing Chinese and have
some kind of bright future in front of
me or some kind of uh not too dim not
too dark future open in front of me at
least a master's diploma or something at
least some career path openly but there
is absolutely nothing open to me again
because of a prisoner passport because
I'm a Canadian citizen if I were German
it would be different if our friend
should be different if I were American
it would be different but because I'm
Canadian there's nothing open to me and
again I've asked I've sat down with the
professors and counselors and so on and
you can it but yeah if I wanted to
police work I guess a masters of Public
Administration could also make me
upwardly mobile in the police I guess I
could become a police officer in Canada
who speaks Chinese who interrogate spew
on Chinese sometimes or uses Chinese as
part of my job you know and again that
is still I mean for me the police work
is part of the ethic of public service
it's the humanitarian side of my
interest in life although I know a lot
of you a lot of you will not see it that
way a lot of the anarchist
in my comments that should not seek that
way um and you know ultimately I do
think that what I would learn in public
administration in Canada would help me
take on a management role leadership
role bureaucratic role in running a
vegan foundation incorporating some kind
of charity some kind of NGO connected to
veganism and you know whether or not
that's a dream whether that's a dream
will never be able to accomplish that
still is it's a dream worth dreaming
it's dream worth laying the groundwork
for being able to do your own taxes and
paperwork and really run your own NGO
because you've got a public
administration background or your own
nonprofit of some kind however it's
incorporated however it's whatever its
status is on paper you know that that
opens that door uh and you know that's a
door I want to keep open whether it
happens when I'm 65 or 75 it's certainly
a door I want to keep open until the day
I die so guys my email is not hard to
find if any of you actually have useful
advice on this I am seeking advice as a
Canadian citizen I need to know about
master's degree options and mpa options
master public administration options or
anything like that that you guys could
recommend if you email me I mean I can
share my resume but whatever first
degree is in political science my second
degree which is fresh so i will have
letters of recommendation from
professors who are still alive and still
no me is in Asian Studies I'm in China
now learning Chinese I have a background
in a long list of other languages
including Cree Ojibwe Japanese Cambodian
Lao poly tie it's ridiculous so many
years lost in language work and I do
actually have a couple of peer-reviewed
publications I do have this history of a
scholar and researcher in other fields
and for me it's all balled up and thrown
into the garbage because I'm a Canadian
citizen I'm a prisoner of my passport
and four year
the link for any positive opportunity
terms of education career and I have
found nothing